Welcome to "Atlas of Legends".
Today, I'm taking you to Japan, into the heart of Heian period, a time of elegance, poetry
and extraordinary works of literature.
Among these ancient tales, one stands out as one of the oldest and most captivating
stories in Japanese tradition, the tale of the bamboo cutter.
Known in Japan as Taketori Monogatari.
Written by Anonymous author around the 10th century, many see it as the father of
all Japanese fiction. It's not only the earliest known narrative written in classical Japanese.
It's also one of the very first stories in the world to speak of beings who come... from
another place.
So, let me guide you through the legend of "Princess Kaguya", a tale filled with beauty,
mystery and a quiet sadness, that lingers long after the story ends.
Get comfortable and let the words take you with them.
Our story begins with an old man, a bamboo cutter known as Taketori no Okina.
Every day, he ventured into the forest to gather the finest bamboo and craft all kinds of objects.
His life was simple and peaceful, shared with his beloved wife.
But despite the love between them, the couple had no children and often looked to the sky
with a quiet longing in their hearts.
Then one day, as sunlight filtered through the green leaves, something extraordinary happened.
Among the bamboo swinging in the wind, one stalk glowed with a golden light.
The old man stopped, stunned.
With trembling hands, he cut the stalk open.
Inside, wrapped in a warm gentle radiance, was a tiny girl, no bigger than the palm of
his hand.
Her eyes sparkled like stars and her skin was pale like the moon.
The bamboo cutter lifted her carefully and believed she must be a gift from the heavens.
How often do unexpected gifts change the course of our lives?
Sometimes, what arrives without warning brings both immense joy and challenges we could
never foresee.
When he returned home, he showed a tiny girl to his wife, who welcomed her with love and
astonishment.
From that moment on, their lives changed forever.
Each time the old man cut another bamboo stalk, he found small piles of shining gold inside.
Before long, the couple became wealthy and respected, but their new found fortune never made them
proud or arrogant.
Their real joy was the miraculous daughter they had been given.
The little girl grew quickly, as if time itself moved differently for her.
In just a few months, she became a young woman of extraordinary beauty.
Three months after finding her, the couple called an astrologer to give her a name.
And she was called Nayotake no Kaguya-hime, "the shining princess of the slender bamboo".
Despite the couple's attempts to keep their lives quiet, news of Kaguya's beauty spread
quickly.
Men of every rank, from merchants and samurai to powerful nobles, gathered around the bamboo
cutter's home, hoping to catch even a glimpse of her.
The house became surrounded by suitors, hiding behind hedges, waiting for the chance to draw
her attention.
But Kaguya stayed distant, refusing every proposal with a gentle, almost melancholic
grace.
Over time, most of those men gave up and returned to their lives.
Only five nobles remained, circling the house day after day, hoping she might change
her mind.
The bamboo cutter, now old and worried about his daughter's future, urged her to choose
a husband, someone who could care for her after he was gone.
Kaguya agreed reluctantly, but decided she would test the sincerity of the five men.
Trials often reveal a person's true nature, don't they?
Sometimes I wonder if a man's worth lies not in the goals he chases, but in what is willing
to face with humility.
The first suitor, Prince Ishizukuri, was tasked with finding the Buddha's stone beggin
bowl.
A sacred relic said to be kept in distant temples in India.
But knowing he could never make such a journey, he found a simple black bowl in a monastery
in Yamato province, and tried to fool Kaguya with it.
She examined it closely and immediately saw through the lie. The bowl didn't shine with
the divine glow he was supposed to have.
Exposed and ashamed, Ishizukuri withdrew, humiliated by his failure.
The second suitor, Isonokami no Marotari, was told to obtain a shell that appeared
only at the moment a Swallow gave birth.
After repeated failures, he met an old man who advised him to wait on the roof near
the nest at just the right moment.
But while waiting, Isonokami lost his balance and fell, injuring himself badly.
Humiliated and mocked for his misfortune, he fell into a deep depression, and let himself die.
The third suitor, Prince Kuramochi, was asked to bring back a branch from the legendary tree
on the island of Horai.
A tree of silver roots, a golden trunk, and jeweled branches.
He set off boasting loudly about his quest, but in secret, he ordered the finest craftsman
to create an exquisite fake.
Kaguya was amazed at first and listened carefully to his tale of heroic deeds.
Resigned to keeping her promise, she began preparing to marry him, until suddenly, the craftsmen
appeared in the courtyard demanding their payment, exposing the deception.
Kuramochi, humiliated, had no choice but to leave.
The fourth suitor, Abe no Mimuraji, was tasked with finding a robe made from the skin of the
fire rat.
A garment said to be completely fireproof.
He entrusted the search to a friend in China, but after a long effort, the only robe he
received turned out to be a fake.
To prove its authenticity, Abe placed it over a flame, and it burned to ashes.
Defeated, he wrote Kaguya a letter, confessing his failure.
The fifth suitor, Otomo no Miyuki, was asked to retrieve a multicolored jewel from the neck
of a sea dragon.
Otomo wasn't known for his bravery, so he sent his soldiers and servants first, hoping they
managed the impossible task for him.
Meanwhile, he was already celebrating in his mind.
He even had a magnificent palace built, convinced that victory and Kaguya, were already his.
A year passed, no one returned.
So Otomo finally set out himself.
He ordered the boat to be prepared, gathered a new group of soldiers, all clearly terrified,
and declared himself the bravest among them, insisting they should be just as fearless.
But once they reached the open sea, after a few calm days, a violent storm suddenly struck.
Otomo, trembling with fear, crawled to the bottom of the boat and started whimpering like a
child.
His crew disappointed and disgusted by such cowardice, mocked him.
They told him the storm must be the dragon's doing, and that it would only calm down
if they abandoned the quest.
Otomo agreed immediately.
Once back on land, his war of ships forever, and lived out his days in solitude on that
remote island.
After the failure of all five suitors, Kaguya faced a new challenge.
The interest of the Emperor himself.
Having heard of her legendary beauty, he was determined to meet her.
But Kaguya had no intention of yielding, not even to an imperial request.
People were shocked.
How could any young woman refuse the Emperor?
However, he wasn't willing to accept defeat.
With the bamboo cutter's reluctant help, he planned a visit during a hunting trip and arrived
at the house, intending to take Kaguya away.
She fought back with all the strength she had, and just as the guards were about to lift
her onto the imperial carriage, she vanished, right in front of their eyes.
In that moment, the Emperor understood: she didn't belong to this world.
Heartbroken, he returned to his palace, filled with sorrow and confusion.
Some time later, Kaguya told her adoptive father that the moment had come.
She had fulfilled her time on Earth, she said, and soon they would come to take her
back to where she belongs.
The old man was devastated, overwhelmed by grief, he went to the Emperor for help.
The Emperor responded by sending 2,000 soldiers to surround the house, determined to stop
anyone, or anything, from taking her away.
But one night, the sky above the house exploded with light.
A group of celestial beings descend from the heavens, wrapped in a brilliant glow, riding
upon a floating cloud.
The imperial soldiers, powerless before such a vision, stood frozen where they were, and
the bamboo cutter and his wife, thrown to the ground by their own sorrow, could do nothing
but cry in despair.
Kaguya, her heart heavy with sadness, said goodbye to the man who had raised her.
She didn't want to leave earth, but she had no choice.
Before following the celestial beings, she wrote a gentle letter for the old man and another
for the Emperor, along with a small vail containing the elixir of immortality.
Then, without hesitation, she rose into the sky and returned to her true home: the moon.
The commander of the imperial guard brought the letters and the elixir back to the capital.
When the Emperor read Kaguya's words, he fell into a deep sorrow.
He stopped eating, cancelled all court celebrations, and withdrew into himself.
One day, overwhelmed by grief, he made a decision.
He ordered a messenger to climb the tallest mountain in the kingdom and burned the vail
along with a poem he had written by his own hand.
A poem in which he declared that immortality meant nothing if he couldn't share life with
Kaguya.
The messenger, escorted by a group of soldiers, climbed to the peak and carried out the order.
As the flames rose, the vail and the letter disappeared, like a final farewell carried into
the sky.
Maybe true love doesn't seek immortality.
Maybe it prefers to live in memory where it remains eternal without needing to possess
anything.
From that day on, that mountain was named Fuji, meaning "immortal", in memory of a love
that could never be, and of the eternal longing that forever linked earth and the moon.
Thank you for listening to this story with me.
If you enjoyed it, I invite you to follow the podcast on your favorite platform, or on the
website atlasoflegends.com.
That way you won't miss any new releases and you'll help me carry on this beautiful adventure.
We'll meet again next time with a new episode that will take us on a journey through time
and cultures.
See you soon with "Atlas of Legends".